CASMHMS-4664: Improvements from my experience fresh installing Hermod / CASMINST-4747 backport (#1677)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: install/prepare_site_init.md

## Details

<a name="background"></a>

### 1. Background

The `shasta-cfg` directory included in CSM includes relatively static,
installation-centric artifacts such as:

* Cluster-wide network configuration settings required by Helm Charts deployed by product stream Loftsman Manifests
* [Sealed Secrets](https://github.com/bitnami-labs/sealed-secrets)
* Sealed Secret Generate Blocks -- a form of plain-text input that renders to a Sealed Secret
* Helm Chart value overrides that are merged into Loftsman Manifests by product stream installers

<a name="create-and-initialize-site-init-directory"></a>

### 2. Create and Initialize `Site Init` Directory

1. Create directory `/mnt/pitdata/prep/site-init`:

    ```bash
    linux# mkdir -pv /mnt/pitdata/prep/site-init
    linux# cd /mnt/pitdata/prep/site-init
    ```

1. Set `CSM_RELEASE` and `SYSTEM_NAME` variables, if not already set:

    ```bash
    linux# CSM_RELEASE=csm-x.y.z
    linux# SYSTEM_NAME=eniac
    ```

1. Initialize `/mnt/pitdata/prep/site-init` from CSM:

    ```bash
    linux# /mnt/pitdata/${CSM_RELEASE}/shasta-cfg/meta/init.sh /mnt/pitdata/prep/site-init
    ```

>     **`IMPORTANT`** The output of this command states that customizations.yaml should be reviewed and updated before

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **`IMPORTANT`** The output of this command states that `customizations.yaml` should be reviewed and updated before
```

>     running the secrets-reencrypt.sh and secrets-seed-customizations.sh scripts. These two scripts will be run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    running the `secrets-reencrypt.sh` and `secrets-seed-customizations.sh` scripts. These two scripts will be run
```

>     later in this document, do not run them at this time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    later in this document; do not run them at this time.
```

1. Validate that REDS/MEDS/RTS sealed secrets contain valid JSON using `jq`:

    Validate REDS credentials (used by the REDS and HMS discovery services, targeting River Redfish BMC endpoints and management switches).

    ```bash
    linux# yq read /mnt/pitdata/prep/site-init/customizations.yaml 'spec.kubernetes.sealed_secrets.cray_reds_credentials.generate.data[0].args.value' | jq
    linux# yq read /mnt/pitdata/prep/site-init/customizations.yaml 'spec.kubernetes.sealed_secrets.cray_reds_credentials.generate.data[1].args.value' | jq
    ```

>     > NOTE: For `vault_redfish_defaults`, the only entry used is '{"Cray": {"Username": "root", "Password": "XXXX"}'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > NOTE: For `vault_redfish_defaults`, the only entry used is `'{"Cray": {"Username": "root", "Password": "XXXX"}'`
```

    > Make sure it is specified as shown, with the 'Cray' key. This key is not
    > used in any of the other credential specifications. Make sure Username and
    > Password entries are correct.

>     Validate MEDS credentials (used by the MEDS service, targeting Redfish BMC endpoints). Make sure Username and Password entries are correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Validate MEDS credentials (used by the MEDS service, targeting Redfish BMC endpoints). Make sure `Username` and `Password` entries are correct.
```

    ```bash
    linux# yq read /mnt/pitdata/prep/site-init/customizations.yaml 'spec.kubernetes.sealed_secrets.cray_meds_credentials.generate.data[0].args.value' | jq
    ```

>     Validate RTS credentials (used by the Redfish Translation Service, targeting River Redfish BMC endpoints and PDU controllers). Make sure Username and Password entries are correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Validate RTS credentials (used by the Redfish Translation Service, targeting River Redfish BMC endpoints and PDU controllers). Make sure `Username` and `Password` entries are correct.
```

    ```bash
    linux# yq read /mnt/pitdata/prep/site-init/customizations.yaml 'spec.kubernetes.sealed_secrets.cray_hms_rts_credentials.generate.data[0].args.value' | jq
    linux# yq read /mnt/pitdata/prep/site-init/customizations.yaml 'spec.kubernetes.sealed_secrets.cray_hms_rts_credentials.generate.data[1].args.value' | jq
    ```

1. To customize the PKI Certificate Authority (CA) used by the platform, see
    [Certificate Authority](../background/certificate_authority.md).

    > **`IMPORTANT`** The CA may not be modified after install.

> 1. To federate Keycloak with an upstream LDAP:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Federate Keycloak with an upstream LDAP server.
```

>     1. Set environment variables for LDAP and PORT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Set environment variables for `LDAP` and `PORT`.
```

>        linux# export PORT=636

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       linux# PORT=636
```

       ```

    1. If LDAP requires TLS (recommended), update the `cray-keycloak` sealed
       secret value by supplying a base64 encoded Java KeyStore (JKS) that
       contains the CA certificate that signed the LDAP server's host key. The
       password for the JKS file must be `password`. Administrators may use the
       `keytool` command from the `openjdk:11-jre-slim` container image
       packaged with CSM to create a JKS file that includes a PEM-encoded
       CA certificate to verify the LDAP host(s) as follows:

>         This step builds an example that will create (or update) `cert.jks` with the PEM-encoded CA certificate for an LDAP host and then prepares `certs.jks.b64` which will be injected into customizations.yaml.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        This step builds an example that will create (or update) `cert.jks` with the PEM-encoded CA certificate for an LDAP host and then prepares `certs.jks.b64` which will be injected into `customizations.yaml`.
```

    Generating type static...
    ```

<a name="version-control-site-init-files"></a>

### 5. Version Control `Site-Init` Files

Setup `/mnt/pitdata/prep/site-init` as a Git repository in order to manage the
baseline configuration during initial system installation.

1. Initialize `/mnt/pitdata/prep/site-init` as a Git repository:

    ```bash
    linux# cd /mnt/pitdata/prep/site-init
    linux# git init .
    ```

> 1. (Optional) **`WARNING`** If production system or operational security is a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (Optional) **WARNING** If production system or operational security is a
```

    linux# echo "certs/" >> .gitignore
    ```

1. Stage `site-init` files to be committed:

    ```bash
    linux# git add -A
    ```

1. Review what will be committed:

    ```bash
    linux# git status
    ```

1. Commit all the above changes as the baseline configuration:

    ```bash
    linux# git commit -m "Baseline configuration for $(/mnt/pitdata/${CSM_RELEASE}/lib/version.sh)"
    ```

<a name="push-to-a-remote-repository"></a>

#### 5.1 Push to a Remote Repository

It is **strongly recommended** that the `site-init` repository be maintained
off-cluster. Add a remote repository and push the baseline configuration on
`master` branch to a corresponding remote branch.

<a name="patch-cloud-init-with-the-ca"></a>

### 6. Patch `cloud-init` with the CA

**`NOTE`** Only execute this procedure if you booted from the remote ISO using procedure
[Bootstrap LiveCD Remote ISO](bootstrap_livecd_remote_iso.md)).
Skip this if using a USB LiveCD. These steps are done elsewhere in that procedure.

> Using `csi` on a generated `site-init` directory...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `csi` on a generated `site-init` directory:
```

   ```

> 1. To assure it picks up the new meta-data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ensure that it picks up the new metadata:
```

   ```bash
   pit# systemctl restart basecamp
   ```

> 1. Unmount the shim from earlier if one was used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Unmount the shim from earlier, if one was used.
```
